Describe how your background, accomplishments, and life experiences led to your decision to pursue the graduate degree for which you are applying. Include any educational, personal, cultural, economic, or social experiences, challenges or opportunities relevant to your academic journey. In addition, please describe any aspects of your personal background, accomplishments, or achievements that will allow the department to evaluate your contributions to the University's diversity mission. Contributions to diversity and equal opportunity can take a variety of forms, such as efforts to advance equitable access to education, public service, that addresses the need of a diverse population, or research that explores inequalities.

---

I come from a scientifically inclined family. My grandparents were spectroscopists, engineers, and doctors, all with PhDs or MDs. My father is a mathematician with a Ph.D. Everyone who still works in my family lives by their work. Since I could remember, my father would tell me stories of how the world formed after the Big Bang, what the universe was made up of, what electrons were, how molecules interacted, even if I didn’t understand a shred of what he was talking about. My favorite stories were about Mendeleev and his discovery of the periodic table (we Russians are very proud of him).  We went fossil hunting, explored different chemical reaction using my chem kit, categorized rocks I found outside using different acids. The one career path I ever considered was to become a scientist (besides my short-lived obsession with ballerinas). 

	I graduated from one of the best high schools in New York City with five advanced science and math courses under my belt with a decently high GPA and went on to college with the intentions of becoming a mathematician - just like my father. In one year, though, I found myself crying on my bed in the dormitory as I was packing my belonging for the summer, at my sliding grades and my growing dissatisfaction with mathematics. Year or two later I would realize that my fragile drive and confidence, which correlated too strongly with how I did in my classes, had a deeper cause than I would even think: I never truly believed I would succeed in achieving my goals. If you take a closer look at my family history it makes sense: all the women in my family quit their careers when they started a family and that was usually right after they finished their education, even if they got their PhDs. There was an unspoken expectation in my family, it seemed, that women had to have their kids in their twenties, and put their kids before their careers. I presumed a similar fate for myself. What is the use of fully committing yourself to a field of study if you know deep inside that your destiny is raising kids? This mentality was never a conscious belief so after becoming aware of it I did everything to prove myself to be above it.
	I dedicated what little was left of my undergraduate education to the accumulation of as many skills as I could. I switched my degree to physics since I personally found the research physicist did to be more applicable and meaningful. I took classes in probability, statistics, operations research, and computer science. I tried both computational research - in my Computational Physics class - and theoretical research - my senior thesis under Professor Jevicki. Since I didn’t have enough research experience in undergrad I decided to take some time off before applying to graduate school. I was lucky enough to get the opportunity to work with Professor Matveyev on theoretical evolutionary genetics: a good mix of Bayesian statistics, Markov stochastic processes, and computer simulations. 
	After considering going into condensed matter in physics, I decided to go into material science because of the direct contributions it has to technology and medicine. 
